.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMSQL2MYSQL\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
msql2mysql \- convert mSQL programs for use with MySQL
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 28
\fBmsql2mysql\fR\fB\fIC\-source\-file\fR\fR\fB ...\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Initially, the MySQL C API was developed to be very similar to that for the mSQL database system. Because of this, mSQL programs often can be converted relatively easily for use with MySQL by changing the names of the C API functions.
.PP
The
\fBmsql2mysql\fR
utility performs the conversion of mSQL C API function calls to their MySQL equivalents.
\fBmsql2mysql\fR
converts the input file in place, so make a copy of the original before converting it. For example, use
\fBmsql2mysql\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBcp client\-prog.c client\-prog.c.orig\fR
shell> \fBmsql2mysql client\-prog.c\fR
client\-prog.c converted
.fi
.PP
Then examine
\fIclient\-prog.c\fR
and make any post\-conversion revisions that may be necessary.
.PP
\fBmsql2mysql\fR
uses the
\fBreplace\fR
utility to make the function name substitutions. See
\fBreplace\fR(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
