.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYISAMLOG\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
myisamlog \- display MyISAM log file contents
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 46
\fBmyisamlog [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] [\fR\fB\fIlog_file\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR\fB] ...]\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBmyisamlog\fR
processes the contents of a
MyISAM
log file.
.PP
Invoke
\fBmyisamlog\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmyisamlog [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] [\fR\fB\fIlog_file\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR\fB] ...]\fR
.fi
.PP
The default operation is update (\fB\-u\fR). If a recovery is done (\fB\-r\fR), all writes and possibly updates and deletes are done and errors are only counted. The default log file name is
\fImyisam.log\fR
if no
\fIlog_file\fR
argument is given, If tables are named on the command line, only those tables are updated.
.PP
\fBmyisamlog\fR
understands the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-?\fR,
\fB\-I\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-c \fR\fB\fIN\fR\fR
.sp
Execute only
\fIN\fR
commands.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-f \fR\fB\fIN\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the maximum number of open files.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-i\fR
.sp
Display extra information before exiting.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-o \fR\fB\fIoffset\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the starting offset.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-p \fR\fB\fIN\fR\fR
.sp
Remove
\fIN\fR
components from path.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-r\fR
.sp
Perform a recovery operation.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-R \fR\fB\fIrecord_pos_file record_pos\fR\fR
.sp
Specify record position file and record position.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-u\fR
.sp
Perform an update operation.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-v\fR
.sp
Verbose mode. Print more output about what the program does. This option can be given multiple times to produce more and more output.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-w \fR\fB\fIwrite_file\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the write file.
.sp
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-V\fR
.sp
Display version information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
