.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQL.SERVER\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysql.server \- MySQL server startup script
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 19
\fBmysql {start|stop}\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
MySQL distributions on Unix include a script named
\fBmysql.server\fR. It can be used on systems such as Linux and Solaris that use System V\-style run directories to start and stop system services. It is also used by the Mac OS X Startup Item for MySQL.
.PP
\fBmysql.server\fR
can be found in the
\fIsupport\-files\fR
directory under your MySQL installation directory or in a MySQL source distribution.
.PP
If you use the Linux server RPM package (MySQL\-server\-\fIVERSION\fR.rpm), the
\fBmysql.server\fR
script will be installed in the
\fI/etc/init.d\fR
directory with the name
\fImysql\fR. You need not install it manually. See
Section\ 4, \(lqInstalling MySQL on Linux\(rq, for more information on the Linux RPM packages.
.PP
Some vendors provide RPM packages that install a startup script under a different name such as
\fBmysqld\fR.
.PP
If you install MySQL from a source distribution or using a binary distribution format that does not install
\fBmysql.server\fR
automatically, you can install it manually. Instructions are provided in
Section\ 10.2.2, \(lqStarting and Stopping MySQL Automatically\(rq.
.PP
\fBmysql.server\fR
reads options from the
[mysql.server]
and
[mysqld]
sections of option files. For backward compatibility, it also reads
[mysql_server]
sections, although you should rename such sections to
[mysql.server]
when using MySQL 5.0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
