.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQL_CONFIG\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysql_config \- get compile options for compiling clients
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 21
\fBmysql_config \fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBmysql_config\fR
provides you with useful information for compiling your MySQL client and connecting it to MySQL.
.PP
\fBmysql_config\fR
supports the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-cflags\fR
.sp
Compiler flags to find include files and critical compiler flags and defines used when compiling the
libmysqlclient
library.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-include\fR
.sp
Compiler options to find MySQL include files. (Note that normally you would use
\fB\-\-cflags\fR
instead of this option.)
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-libmysqld\-libs\fR,
\fB\-\-embedded\fR
.sp
Libraries and options required to link with the MySQL embedded server.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-libs\fR
.sp
Libraries and options required to link with the MySQL client library.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-libs_r\fR
.sp
Libraries and options required to link with the thread\-safe MySQL client library.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-port\fR
.sp
The default TCP/IP port number, defined when configuring MySQL.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-socket\fR
.sp
The default Unix socket file, defined when configuring MySQL.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-version\fR
.sp
Version number for the MySQL distribution.
.PP
If you invoke
\fBmysql_config\fR
with no options, it displays a list of all options that it supports, and their values:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysql_config\fR
Usage: /usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config [options]
Options:
  \-\-cflags         [\-I/usr/local/mysql/include/mysql \-mcpu=pentiumpro]
  \-\-include        [\-I/usr/local/mysql/include/mysql]
  \-\-libs           [\-L/usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql \-lmysqlclient \-lz
                    \-lcrypt \-lnsl \-lm \-L/usr/lib \-lssl \-lcrypto]
  \-\-libs_r         [\-L/usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql \-lmysqlclient_r
                    \-lpthread \-lz \-lcrypt \-lnsl \-lm \-lpthread]
  \-\-socket         [/tmp/mysql.sock]
  \-\-port           [3306]
  \-\-version        [4.0.16]
  \-\-libmysqld\-libs [\-L/usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql \-lmysqld \-lpthread \-lz
                    \-lcrypt \-lnsl \-lm \-lpthread \-lrt]
.fi
.PP
You can use
\fBmysql_config\fR
within a command line to include the value that it displays for a particular option. For example, to compile a MySQL client program, use
\fBmysql_config\fR
as follows:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBCFG=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config\fR
shell> \fBsh \-c "gcc \-o progname `$CFG \-\-cflags` progname.c `$CFG \-\-libs`"\fR
.fi
.PP
When you use
\fBmysql_config\fR
this way, be sure to invoke it within backtick (\(oq`\(cq) characters. That tells the shell to execute it and substitute its output into the surrounding command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
