.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQL_FIX_PRIVILE" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysql_fix_privilege_tables \- upgrade MySQL system tables
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 52
\fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables \-\-password=\fR\fB\fIroot_password\fR\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Some releases of MySQL introduce changes to the structure of the system tables in the
mysql
database to add new privileges or support new features. When you update to a new version of MySQL, you should update your system tables as well to make sure that their structure is up to date. Otherwise, there might be capabilities that you cannot take advantage of. First, make a backup of your
mysql
database, and then use the following procedure.
.PP
\fBNote\fR: As of MySQL 5.0.19,
\fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables\fR
is superseded by
\fBmysql_upgrade\fR, which should be used instead. See
\fBmysql_upgrade\fR(1).
.PP
On Unix or Unix\-like systems, update the system tables by running the
\fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables\fR
script:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables\fR
.fi
.PP
You must run this script while the server is running. It attempts to connect to the server running on the local host as
root. If your
root
account requires a password, indicate the password on the command line like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables \-\-password=\fR\fB\fIroot_password\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
The
\fBmysql_fix_privilege_tables\fR
script performs any actions necessary to convert your system tables to the current format. You might see some
Duplicate column name
warnings as it runs; you can ignore them.
.PP
After running the script, stop the server and restart it.
.PP
On Windows systems, MySQL distributions include a
\fImysql_fix_privilege_tables.sql\fR
SQL script that you can run using the
\fBmysql\fR
client. For example, if your MySQL installation is located at
\fIC:\\Program Files\\MySQL\\MySQL Server 5.0\fR, the commands look like this:
.sp
.nf
C:\\> \fBcd "C:\\Program Files\\MySQL\\MySQL Server 5.0"\fR
C:\\> \fBbin\\mysql \-u root \-p mysql\fR
mysql> \fBSOURCE scripts/mysql_fix_privilege_tables.sql\fR
.fi
.PP
The
\fBmysql\fR
command will prompt you for the
root
password; enter it when prompted.
.PP
If your installation is located in some other directory, adjust the pathnames appropriately.
.PP
As with the Unix procedure, you might see some
Duplicate column name
warnings as
\fBmysql\fR
processes the statements in the
\fImysql_fix_privilege_tables.sql\fR
script; you can ignore them.
.PP
After running the script, stop the server and restart it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
