.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQL_ZAP\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysql_zap \- kill processes that match a pattern
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 36
\fBmysql_zap [\-\fR\fB\fIsignal\fR\fR\fB] [\-?Ift] \fR\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBmysql_zap\fR
kills processes that match a pattern. It uses the
\fBps\fR
command and Unix signals, so it runs on Unix and Unix\-like systems.
.PP
Invoke
\fBmysql_zap\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysql_zap [\-\fR\fB\fIsignal\fR\fR\fB] [\-?Ift] \fR\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
A process matches if its output line from the
\fBps\fR
command contains the pattern. By default,
\fBmysql_zap\fR
asks for confirmation for each process. Respond
y
to kill the process, or
q
to exit
\fBmysql_zap\fR. For any other response,
\fBmysql_zap\fR
does not attempt to kill the process.
.PP
If the
\fB\-\fR\fB\fIsignal\fR\fR
option is given, it specifies the name or number of the signal to send to each process. Otherwise,
\fBmysql_zap\fR
tries first with
TERM
(signal 15) and then with
KILL
(signal 9).
.PP
\fBmysql_zap\fR
understands the following additional options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-help\fR,
\fB\-?\fR,
\fB\-I\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-f\fR
.sp
Force mode.
\fBmysql_zap\fR
attempts to kill each process without confirmation.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-t\fR
.sp
Test mode. Display information about each process but do not kill it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
