.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQLHOTCOPY\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysqlhotcopy \- a database backup program
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 23
\fBmysqlhotcopy \fR\fB\fIarguments\fR\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR
is a Perl script that was originally written and contributed by Tim Bunce. It uses
LOCK TABLES,
FLUSH TABLES, and
cp
or
scp
to make a database backup quickly. It is the fastest way to make a backup of the database or single tables, but it can be run only on the same machine where the database directories are located.
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR
works only for backing up
MyISAM
and
ARCHIVE
tables. It runs on Unix and NetWare.
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlhotcopy \fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fI/path/to/new_directory\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.fi
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlhotcopy \fR\fB\fIdb_name_1\fR\fR\fB ... \fR\fB\fIdb_name_n\fR\fR\fB \fR\fB\fI/path/to/new_directory\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
Back up tables in the given database that match a regular expression:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlhotcopy \fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB./\fR\fB\fIregex\fR\fR\fB/\fR
.fi
.PP
The regular expression for the table name can be negated by prefixing it with a tilde (\(oq~\(cq):
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlhotcopy \fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB./~\fR\fB\fIregex\fR\fR\fB/\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR
supports the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-help\fR,
\fB\-?\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-addtodest\fR
.sp
Do not rename target directory (if it exists); merely add files to it.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-allowold\fR
.sp
Do not abort if a target exists; rename it by adding an
_old
suffix.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-checkpoint=\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB.\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR
.sp
Insert checkpoint entries into the specified database
\fIdb_name\fR
and table
\fItbl_name\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-chroot=\fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.sp
Base directory of the
\fBchroot\fR
jail in which
\fBmysqld\fR
operates. The
\fIpath\fR
value should match that of the
\fB\-\-chroot\fR
option given to
\fBmysqld\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-debug\fR
.sp
Enable debug output.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-dryrun\fR,
\fB\-n\fR
.sp
Report actions without performing them.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-flushlog\fR
.sp
Flush logs after all tables are locked.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-host=\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-h \fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR
.sp
The hostname of the local host to use for making a TCP/IP connection to the local server. By default, the connection is made to
localhost
using a Unix socket file.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-keepold\fR
.sp
Do not delete previous (renamed) target when done.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-method=\fR\fB\fIcommand\fR\fR
.sp
The method for copying files (cp
or
scp).
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-noindices\fR
.sp
Do not include full index files in the backup. This makes the backup smaller and faster. The indexes for reloaded tables can be reconstructed later with
\fBmyisamchk \-rq\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-password=\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR,
\fB\-p\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR
.sp
The password to use when connecting to the server. Note that the password value is not optional for this option, unlike for other MySQL programs. You can use an option file to avoid giving the password on the command line.
.sp
Specifying a password on the command line should be considered insecure. See
Section\ 7.6, \(lqKeeping Your Password Secure\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-port=\fR\fB\fIport_num\fR\fR,
\fB\-P \fR\fB\fIport_num\fR\fR
.sp
The TCP/IP port number to use when connecting to the local server.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-quiet\fR,
\fB\-q\fR
.sp
Be silent except for errors.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-record_log_pos=\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB.\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR
.sp
Record master and slave status in the specified database
\fIdb_name\fR
and table
\fItbl_name\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-regexp=\fR\fB\fIexpr\fR\fR
.sp
Copy all databases with names that match the given regular expression.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-resetmaster\fR
.sp
Reset the binary log after locking all the tables.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-resetslave\fR
.sp
Reset the
\fImaster.info\fR
file after locking all the tables.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-socket=\fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR,
\fB\-S \fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.sp
The Unix socket file to use for the connection.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-suffix=\fR\fB\fIstr\fR\fR
.sp
The suffix for names of copied databases.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-tmpdir=\fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.sp
The temporary directory. The default is
\fI/tmp\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-user=\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-u \fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR
.sp
The MySQL username to use when connecting to the server.
.PP
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR
reads the
[client]
and
[mysqlhotcopy]
option groups from option files.
.PP
To execute
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR, you must have access to the files for the tables that you are backing up, the
SELECT
privilege for those tables, the
RELOAD
privilege (to be able to execute
FLUSH TABLES), and the
LOCK TABLES
privilege (to be able to lock the tables).
.PP
Use
perldoc
for additional
\fBmysqlhotcopy\fR
documentation, including information about the structure of the tables needed for the
\fB\-\-checkpoint\fR
and
\fB\-\-record_log_pos\fR
options:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBperldoc mysqlhotcopy\fR
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
