.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQLACCESS\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysqlaccess \- client for checking access privileges
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 56
\fBmysqlaccess [\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB]]] [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBmysqlaccess\fR
is a diagnostic tool that Yves Carlier has provided for the MySQL distribution. It checks the access privileges for a hostname, username, and database combination. Note that
\fBmysqlaccess\fR
checks access using only the
user,
db, and
host
tables. It does not check table, column, or routine privileges specified in the
tables_priv,
columns_priv, or
procs_priv
tables.
.PP
Invoke
\fBmysqlaccess\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlaccess [\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB]]] [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.fi
.PP
\fBmysqlaccess\fR
understands the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-help\fR,
\fB\-?\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-brief\fR,
\fB\-b\fR
.sp
Generate reports in single\-line tabular format.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-commit\fR
.sp
Copy the new access privileges from the temporary tables to the original grant tables. The grant tables must be flushed for the new privileges to take effect. (For example, execute a
\fBmysqladmin reload\fR
command.)
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-copy\fR
.sp
Reload the temporary grant tables from original ones.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-db=\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-d \fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the database name.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-debug=\fR\fB\fIN\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the debug level.
\fIN\fR
can be an integer from 0 to 3.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-host=\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-h \fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR
.sp
The hostname to use in the access privileges.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-howto\fR
.sp
Display some examples that show how to use
\fBmysqlaccess\fR.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-old_server\fR
.sp
Assume that the server is an old MySQL server (before MySQL 3.21) that does not yet know how to handle full
WHERE
clauses.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-password[=\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR,
\fB\-p[\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.sp
The password to use when connecting to the server. If you omit the
\fIpassword\fR
value following the
\fB\-\-password\fR
or
\fB\-p\fR
option on the command line, you are prompted for one.
.sp
Specifying a password on the command line should be considered insecure. See
Section\ 7.6, \(lqKeeping Your Password Secure\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-plan\fR
.sp
Display suggestions and ideas for future releases.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-preview\fR
.sp
Show the privilege differences after making changes to the temporary grant tables.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-relnotes\fR
.sp
Display the release notes.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-rhost=\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-H \fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR
.sp
Connect to the MySQL server on the given host.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-rollback\fR
.sp
Undo the most recent changes to the temporary grant tables.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-spassword[=\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR,
\fB\-P[\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.sp
The password to use when connecting to the server as the superuser. If you omit the
\fIpassword\fR
value following the
\fB\-\-password\fR
or
\fB\-p\fR
option on the command line, you are prompted for one.
.sp
Specifying a password on the command line should be considered insecure. See
Section\ 7.6, \(lqKeeping Your Password Secure\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-superuser=\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-U \fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR
.sp
Specify the username for connecting as the superuser.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-table\fR,
\fB\-t\fR
.sp
Generate reports in table format.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-user=\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-u \fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR
.sp
The username to use in the access privileges.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-version\fR,
\fB\-v\fR
.sp
Display version information and exit.
.PP
If your MySQL distribution is installed in some non\-standard location, you must change the location where
\fBmysqlaccess\fR
expects to find the
\fBmysql\fR
client. Edit the
\fImysqlaccess\fR
script at approximately line 18. Search for a line that looks like this:
.sp
.nf
$MYSQL     = '/usr/local/bin/mysql';    # path to mysql executable
.fi
.PP
Change the path to reflect the location where
\fBmysql\fR
actually is stored on your system. If you do not do this, a
Broken pipe
error will occur when you run
\fBmysqlaccess\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
