.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBMYSQLSHOW\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
mysqlshow \- display database, table, and column information
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 52
\fBmysqlshow [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] [\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIcol_name\fR\fR\fB]]]\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBmysqlshow\fR
client can be used to quickly see which databases exist, their tables, or a table's columns or indexes.
.PP
\fBmysqlshow\fR
provides a command\-line interface to several SQL
SHOW
statements. See
Section\ 5.4, \(lqSHOW Syntax\(rq. The same information can be obtained by using those statements directly. For example, you can issue them from the
\fBmysql\fR
client program.
.PP
Invoke
\fBmysqlshow\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBmysqlshow [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] [\fR\fB\fIdb_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fItbl_name\fR\fR\fB [\fR\fB\fIcol_name\fR\fR\fB]]]\fR
.fi
.TP 3
\(bu
If no database is given, a list of database names is shown.
.TP
\(bu
If no table is given, all matching tables in the database are shown.
.TP
\(bu
If no column is given, all matching columns and column types in the table are shown.
.PP
The output displays only the names of those databases, tables, or columns for which you have some privileges.
.PP
If the last argument contains shell or SQL wildcard characters (\(oq*\(cq, \(oq?\(cq, \(oq%\(cq, or \(oq_\(cq), only those names that are matched by the wildcard are shown. If a database name contains any underscores, those should be escaped with a backslash (some Unix shells require two) to get a list of the proper tables or columns. \(oq*\(cq and \(oq?\(cq characters are converted into SQL \(oq%\(cq and \(oq_\(cq wildcard characters. This might cause some confusion when you try to display the columns for a table with a \(oq_\(cq in the name, because in this case,
\fBmysqlshow\fR
shows you only the table names that match the pattern. This is easily fixed by adding an extra \(oq%\(cq last on the command line as a separate argument.
.PP
\fBmysqlshow\fR
supports the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-help\fR,
\fB\-?\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-character\-sets\-dir=\fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.sp
The directory where character sets are installed. See
Section\ 9.1, \(lqThe Character Set Used for Data and Sorting\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-compress\fR,
\fB\-C\fR
.sp
Compress all information sent between the client and the server if both support compression.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-count\fR
.sp
Show the number of rows per table. This can be slow for non\-MyISAM
tables. This option was added in MySQL 5.0.6.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-debug[=\fR\fB\fIdebug_options\fR\fR\fB]\fR,
\fB\-# [\fR\fB\fIdebug_options\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.sp
Write a debugging log. The
\fIdebug_options\fR
string often is
\'d:t:o,\fIfile_name\fR'.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-default\-character\-set=\fR\fB\fIcharset_name\fR\fR
.sp
Use
\fIcharset_name\fR
as the default character set. See
Section\ 9.1, \(lqThe Character Set Used for Data and Sorting\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-host=\fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-h \fR\fB\fIhost_name\fR\fR
.sp
Connect to the MySQL server on the given host.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-keys\fR,
\fB\-k\fR
.sp
Show table indexes.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-password[=\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR,
\fB\-p[\fR\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR\fB]\fR
.sp
The password to use when connecting to the server. If you use the short option form (\fB\-p\fR), you
\fIcannot\fR
have a space between the option and the password. If you omit the
\fIpassword\fR
value following the
\fB\-\-password\fR
or
\fB\-p\fR
option on the command line, you are prompted for one.
.sp
Specifying a password on the command line should be considered insecure. See
Section\ 7.6, \(lqKeeping Your Password Secure\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-port=\fR\fB\fIport_num\fR\fR,
\fB\-P \fR\fB\fIport_num\fR\fR
.sp
The TCP/IP port number to use for the connection.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-protocol={TCP|SOCKET|PIPE|MEMORY}\fR
.sp
The connection protocol to use.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-show\-table\-type\fR,
\fB\-t\fR
.sp
Show a column indicating the table type, as in
SHOW FULL TABLES. The type is
BASE TABLE
or
VIEW. This option was added in MySQL 5.0.4.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-socket=\fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR,
\fB\-S \fR\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.sp
For connections to
localhost, the Unix socket file to use, or, on Windows, the name of the named pipe to use.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-ssl*\fR
.sp
Options that begin with
\fB\-\-ssl\fR
specify whether to connect to the server via SSL and indicate where to find SSL keys and certificates. See
Section\ 7.7.3, \(lqSSL Command Options\(rq.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-status\fR,
\fB\-i\fR
.sp
Display extra information about each table.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-user=\fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR,
\fB\-u \fR\fB\fIuser_name\fR\fR
.sp
The MySQL username to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-verbose\fR,
\fB\-v\fR
.sp
Verbose mode. Print more information about what the program does. This option can be used multiple times to increase the amount of information.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-version\fR,
\fB\-V\fR
.sp
Display version information and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
perror(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
