.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "\\FBPERROR\\FR" "1" "08/24/2006" "MySQL 5.0" "MySQL Database System"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
perror \- explain error codes
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 31
\fBperror [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] \fR\fB\fIerrorcode\fR\fR\fB ...\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
For most system errors, MySQL displays, in addition to an internal text message, the system error code in one of the following styles:
.sp
.nf
message ... (errno: #)
message ... (Errcode: #)
.fi
.PP
You can find out what the error code means by examining the documentation for your system or by using the
\fBperror\fR
utility.
.PP
\fBperror\fR
prints a description for a system error code or for a storage engine (table handler) error code.
.PP
Invoke
\fBperror\fR
like this:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBperror [\fR\fB\fIoptions\fR\fR\fB] \fR\fB\fIerrorcode\fR\fR\fB ...\fR
.fi
.PP
Example:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBperror 13 64\fR
Error code  13:  Permission denied
Error code  64:  Machine is not on the network
.fi
.PP
To obtain the error message for a MySQL Cluster error code, invoke
\fBperror\fR
with the
\fB\-\-ndb\fR
option:
.sp
.nf
shell> \fBperror \-\-ndb \fR\fB\fIerrorcode\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
Note that the meaning of system error messages may be dependent on your operating system. A given error code may mean different things on different operating systems.
.PP
\fBperror\fR
supports the following options:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fB\-\-help\fR,
\fB\-\-info\fR,
\fB\-I\fR,
\fB\-?\fR
.sp
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-ndb\fR
.sp
Print the error message for a MySQL Cluster error code.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-silent\fR,
\fB\-s\fR
.sp
Silent mode. Print only the error message.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-verbose\fR,
\fB\-v\fR
.sp
Verbose mode. Print error code and message. This is the default behavior.
.TP
\(bu
\fB\-\-version\fR,
\fB\-V\fR
.sp
Display version information and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msql2mysql(1),
myisam_ftdump(1),
myisamchk(1),
myisamlog(1),
myisampack(1),
mysql(1),
mysql.server(1),
mysql_config(1),
mysql_explain_log(1),
mysql_fix_privilege_tables(1),
mysql_upgrade(1),
mysql_zap(1),
mysqlaccess(1),
mysqladmin(1),
mysqlbinlog(1),
mysqlcheck(1),
mysqld(1),
mysqld(8),
mysqld_multi(1),
mysqld_safe(1),
mysqldump(1),
mysqlhotcopy(1),
mysqlimport(1),
mysqlmanager(1),
mysqlmanager(8),
mysqlshow(1),
replace(1),
safe_mysqld(1)
.P
For more information, please refer to the MySQL Reference Manual,
which may already be installed locally and which is also available
online at http://dev.mysql.com/doc/.
.SH AUTHOR
MySQL AB (http://www.mysql.com/).
This software comes with no warranty.
