=head1 NAME

syslog-facility - Setup and remove LOCALx facility for sysklogd

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<syslog-facility> B<set> I<set_of_priority> I<log_file>  ...

B<syslog-facility> B<remove> I<facility>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<syslog-facility> can be used to setup a syslog facility and to remove
it. The primary use of this perl script is to allow packages to
automatically setup (and remove) a LOCALx facility. With the
first argument beeing I<set>, it will output a string containing
the first free LOCALx facility that has been assigned to your request :

  # syslog-facility set all /var/log/sympa
  local0

This does mean that a line "local0.*	/var/log/sympa" has been
added to the syslog.conf file. If no free LOCALx facility has been
found, then it outputs "none" (with a end of line).

You can use different set of priorities (most of what syslogd supports) :

  # syslog-facility set 'all;!=debug;' /var/log/sympa '=debug' /var/log/sympa-d
  local1

Pay particular attention to shell escapes since ';','!' have special
meanings for them. The syntax is similar to syslog.conf except that
'*' must be replaced by 'all'.

In that case you will have two lines added two the syslog.conf file :

  local1.*;local1.!=debug	/var/log/sympa
  local1.=debug			/var/log/sympa-d

If the first argument is I<remove>, then it will remove all references
to a precise LOCALx facility. Example :

  # syslog-facility remove local1

It will remove all references to the local1 facility. 

=head1 BUGS

The script doesn't know about multi-lines configuration (ie with '\').

With a line like that "mail,local0.* /anything", "syslog-facility remove
local0" would remove the entire line. It should not be a problem since
lines installed by this script cannot use this syntax.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<syslog.conf>(5), B<sysklogd>(8).
 
