.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\" Adduser and this manpage are copyright 1995 by Ted Hajek
.\"
.\" This is free software; see the GNU General Public Lisence version 2
.\" or later for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty.
.TH "adduser.conf" 5 "Version VERSION" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
/etc/adduser.conf \- configuration file for 
.B adduser(8) 
and 
.BR addgroup(8) .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file 
.I /etc/adduser.conf
contains defaults for the programs
.B adduser(8) 
and 
.BR addgroup(8) .
Each option takes the form
.IR option " = " value .
Double or single quotes are allowed around the value.  Comment lines
must have a pound sign (#) in the first line.

The valid configuration options are:
.TP
\fBDSHELL\fP
The login shell to be used for all new users.  Defaults to
.IR /bin/bash .
.TP
\fBDHOME\fP
The directory in which new home directories should be created.
Defaults to
.IR /home .
.TP
\fBGROUPHOMES\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
the the home directories will be created as
.IR /home/[groupname]/user .
Defaults to
.IR no .
.TP
\fBLETTERHOMES\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then the home directories created will have an
extra directory inserted which is the first letter of the loginname.
For example:
.IR /home/u/user .
Defaults to
.IR no .
.TP
\fBSKEL\fP
The directory from which skeletal user configuration files should be
copied.  Defaults to
.IR /etc/skel .
.TP
.BR FIRST_SYSTEM_UID " and " LAST_SYSTEM_UID
specify an inclusive range of dynamically allocated system user UIDs.
Default to
.IR 100 " - " 999 .
.TP
.BR FIRST_UID " and " LAST_UID
specify an inclusive range of dynamically allocated normal user UIDs.
Default to
.IR 1000 " - " 29999 .
.TP
\fBUSERGROUPS\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then each created user will be given their own group to use and their
home directories will be g+s.  If this is
.IR no ,
then each created user will be placed in the group whose GID is
\fBUSERS_GID\fP (see below).  The default is
.IR yes .
.TP
\fBUSERS_GID\fP
If \fBUSERGROUPS\fP is
.IR no ,
then \fBUSERS_GID\fP is the GID given to all newly-created users.  The
default value is
.IR 100 .
.TP
\fBQUOTAUSER\fP
If set to a nonempty value, new users will have quotas copied from
that user.  The default is empty.
.TP
\fBDIR_MODE\fP
If set to a valid value (e.g. 0755 or 755), directories created will have
the specified permissions. Otherwise 0755 is used as default.
.TP
\fBSETGID_HOME\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then home directories for users with their own group (
.IR USERGROUPS=yes
) will have the setgid bit set. This was the default setting for adduser
versions << 3.13. Unfortunately it has some bad side effects, so we no
longer do this per default. If you want it nevertheless you can still
activate it here.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/adduser.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
adduser(8)


