Exim Documentation
------------------

This directory should contain the following files:

  ChangeLog        most recent log of all changes to Exim
  NewStuff         features that haven't made it to the manual yet,
                   and/or a list of newly-added functionality
  OptionLists      lists of all Exim's options
  README           this document
  dbm.discuss.txt  discussion of DBM libraries
  filter.txt       specification of filter file contents
  oview.txt        an overview of Exim
  pcre.html        specification of PCRE regular expression library, HTML
  pcre.txt         the same, in plain ASCII
  pcretest.txt     specification of the PCRE test program
  spec.txt         main specification of Exim

The .txt files are straight ASCII text; spec.txt and filter.txt have change
bars on the right for changes from the previous editions.


PostScript
----------

The Exim specifications are also available in PostScript. This is not included
in the main distribution because not everyone wants it and it doesn't diff
well, causing patches to be very much larger than necessary.

Wherever you got this distribution from should also have carried another file
called exim-postscript-<version>.tar.gz which contains the PostScript
documentation. When de-tarred it creates a directory called
exim-postscript-<version> into which it places the files doc/filter.ps,
doc/oview.ps, and doc/spec.ps.


HTML
----

A special conversion from the original sources via Texinfo into HTML is done to
create the online documentation at http://www.exim.org, courtesy of Planet
Online, Ltd. This set of files is also available for installation on other
servers. Wherever you got this distribution from should also have carried
another file called exim-html-<version>.tar.gz which contains the HTML
documentation. When de-tarred it creates a directory called exim-html-<version>
into which it places a directory called doc/html containing the set of HTML
files. The 3 kick off points are:

   html/spec.html	   - specification (framed)
   html/filter_toc.html    - filter docs
   html/oview.html	   - overview


PDF
---

The Exim specifications are available in Portable Document Format. Wherever you
got this distribution from should also have carried another file called
exim-pdf-<version>.tar.gz which contains the PDF documentation. When de-tarred
it creates a directory called exim-pdf-<version> into which it places the files
doc/filter.pdf, doc/oview.pdf, and doc/spec.pdf.


TeXinfo
-------

A version of the documentation that has been converted to TeXinfo format is
available in the distribution file exim-texinfo-<version>.gz. When de-tarred it
creates a directory called exim-texinfo-<version> into which it places the
files doc/filter.texinfo, doc/oview.texinfo, and doc/spec.texinfo.

The conversion process is automatic (a Perl script) so the result isn't as nice
as hand-maintained TeXinfo files would be, and some information is lost;
for example, TeXinfo does not support the use of change bars.

There is cgi-bin perl script called info2www which converts info files to
html on the fly so that the same info files can be read using the "info"
program, or from emacs, or from your favourite browser. This is available from

http://www.ericsson.nl/info2www/info2www.html

-- End --
