This package was debianized by Jeff Licquia <licquia@debian.org> on
Sun,  3 Oct 1999 20:58:02 -0500.

It was downloaded from:
	ftp://ftp2.easysw.com/pub/cups/

Upstream Author(s): Easy Software Products <cups-info@cups.org>
                    Michael Sweet <mike@easysw.com>

Copyright:

[From the LICENSE.txt file.  GPL cut for brevity; for a copy, look in
/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.]

                Common UNIX Printing System License Agreement

                Copyright 1997-1999 by Easy Software Products
                        44141 AIRPORT VIEW DR STE 204
                     HOLLYWOOD, MARYLAND 20636-3111 USA

                           Voice: +1.301.373.9603
                          Email: cups-info@cups.org
                          WWW: http://www.cups.org

Introduction

The Common UNIX Printing SystemTM, or CUPSTM, is provided under the GNU
General Public License, Version 2. A copy of this license follows this
introduction.

For those not familiar with the GNU General Public License, the license
basically allows you to:

   * Use the CUPS software at no charge.
   * Distribute verbatim copies of the software in source or binary form.
   * Sell verbatim copies of the software for a media fee, or sell support
     for the software.
   * Distribute or sell printer drivers and filters that use the CUPS API so
     long as source code is made available under the GPL.

What this license does not allow you to do is make changes or add features
to CUPS and then sell a binary distribution without source code. You have to
provide source for any new drivers, changes, or additions to the software,
and all code must be provided under the GPL.

Also, since we have trademarked the Common UNIX Printing System, CUPS, and
CUPS logo, you may not release a derivative product using those names
without permission from Easy Software Products.

Binary Distribution Rights

Easy Software Products also sells rights to the CUPS source code under a
binary distribution license for vendors that are unable to release source
code for their drivers or additions and modifications to CUPS under the GPL.
For pricing information please contact us at the address shown above.

The Common UNIX Printing System utilizes GNU GhostScript 4.03 to convert
PostScript files into a stream of raster images. For binary distribution
licensing of this software, please contact:

     Miles Jones
     Director of Marketing
     Artifex Software Inc.
     454 Las Gallinas Ave., Suite 108
     San Rafael, CA 94903 USA
     Voice: +1.415.492.9861
     Fax: +1.415.492.9862
     EMail: info@arsoft.com

Support

Easy Software Products sells software support for distributors and resellers
of CUPS. Support for users of CUPS is available from Easy Software Products
through our ESP Print software.

Trademarks

The Common UNIX Printing System, CUPS, and the CUPS logo are the trademark
property of Easy Software Products. Any derivative of this software may not
use any of these trademarks without the expressed written consent of Easy
Software Products.

