#!/bin/sh -e
## wget-doc-wgetrc-path-in-sample.wgetrc by Noèl Köthe <noel debian.org>
##
## DP: corrects the wgetrc path from /usr/local/etc/ to /etc/wgetrc in the
## DP: sample wgetrc

if [ $# -lt 1 ]; then
    echo >&2 "`basename $0`: script expects -patch|-unpatch as argument"
    exit 1
fi

[ -f debian/patches/00patch-opts ] && . debian/patches/00patch-opts
patch_opts="${patch_opts:--f --no-backup-if-mismatch} ${2:+-d $2}"

case "$1" in
       -patch) patch $patch_opts -p1 < $0;;
       -unpatch) patch $patch_opts -p1 -R < $0;;
        *)
                echo >&2 "`basename $0`: script expects -patch|-unpatch as argument"
                exit 1;;
esac

exit 0

@DPATCH@
--- wget-1.9.1.orig/doc/wget.texi
+++ wget-1.9.1/doc/wget.texi
@@ -197,12 +197,12 @@
 Most of the features are fully configurable, either through command line
 options, or via the initialization file @file{.wgetrc} (@pxref{Startup
 File}).  Wget allows you to define @dfn{global} startup files
-(@file{/usr/local/etc/wgetrc} by default) for site settings.
+(@file{/etc/wgetrc} by default) for site settings.
 
 @ignore
 @c man begin FILES
 @table @samp
-@item /usr/local/etc/wgetrc
+@item /etc/wgetrc
 Default location of the @dfn{global} startup file.
 
 @item .wgetrc
@@ -2090,9 +2090,7 @@
 @cindex location of wgetrc
 
 When initializing, Wget will look for a @dfn{global} startup file,
-@file{/usr/local/etc/wgetrc} by default (or some prefix other than
-@file{/usr/local}, if Wget was not installed there) and read commands
-from there, if it exists.
+@file{/etc/wgetrc} by default and read commands from there, if it exists.
 
 Then it will look for the user's file.  If the environmental variable
 @code{WGETRC} is set, Wget will try to load that file.  Failing that, no
@@ -2102,7 +2100,7 @@
 
 The fact that user's settings are loaded after the system-wide ones
 means that in case of collision user's wgetrc @emph{overrides} the
-system-wide wgetrc (in @file{/usr/local/etc/wgetrc} by default).
+system-wide wgetrc (in @file{/etc/wgetrc} by default).
 Fascist admins, away!
 
 @node Wgetrc Syntax, Wgetrc Commands, Wgetrc Location, Startup File
